#econ1000 
Set of mechanisms that revolve around production of
1. what
2. how
3. whom

## Comparative Economic Systems
compares & contrasts the performance & structure (ie outcome) of different systems

## [[Four primary institutions]]
1. House
	- Most fundamental part of every economic system
	- primary suppliers of [[Factors of Production]].
	- Ultimate consumers of most finished G&S's
	- Rational decision makers: do their best to achieve their goals, given the "rules of the game."
2. Firm
	- Institutions that transform [[Factors of Production]] into G&S's
	- Firms may be owned/operated privately, cooperatively, collectively, or socially.
	- The main object of privately owned firms: "Profit".
2. Markets
	- All potential buyers & all potential sellers of a G&S
	- Only institution that is *not* a "decision-maker"
	- "Invisible hand" suggests interactions of exchange between "buyers" and "sellers."
4. Government
	- Decision making institution with legal authority to impose restrictions & mandates on behavior.
	- Plays a critical role in defining & enforcing property rights and contracts. (ex: regulates business, provides G&Ss for taxes.)



## [[Limited Government]]

## [[Involved Government]]

## Important Roles for government:
- Contract Enforcement
- Tax Codes & Bankruptcy Laws
- Environmental Regulations
- Health Codes & Warning Labels
- Labor Laws & Safety Regulations

Some examples
- Department of Labor (DOL)
- Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
- Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
- U.S Food and Drug Admin (FDA)
- Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA)

# C vs S
- No country exists as either purely socialist or purely capitalist
- Even so, ALL economic systems address 'What, How & For Whom?'

## How capitalism evolved
1. Feudalism
	- Aristocratic/Hereditary ownership:
		- land
		- estates
		- titles of nobility.
	- Nobles at the top
	- Serfs at the bottom.
	- Europe: 5th - 12th centuries
2. Mercantilism
	- Large gov. control
	- Mother country max the amount of gold/silver
	- Trade between mother country & colonies
	- No trade among colonies.
	- 16th - 18th centuries
3. Capitalism
	- Replaced feudalism
	- Modified mercantilism.
	- Private ownership of [[Factors of Production]]
	- Private property rights

## [[Pure Capitalism]]
### Private Property Rights
- Individuals own rights to [[Factors of Production]]
- Rights to:
	- control/decide how to use property
	- acquire/transfer ownership of property
	- right to seek restitution for damages to property
### Price
- Means of allocation: prices of G&S are distributed according to decisions made by producers/consumers
### Profit
- The driving incentive behind productivity. 

### Capitalism relies heavily upon individuals decision making in free markets
Consumer Sovereignty
- Freedom to choose/not choose to purchase a G&S at a price determined by the free market.
Firm
- Pursuit of profit are significant for determining what G&S will be provided in a free market

## [[Pure Socialism]]
### Centrally-Planned Economy
- Government ownership of all resources ([[Factors of Production]])
### Distribution of income & output
- Decisions handled by central planning board
### Regulation & Taxes
- Economy is highly regulated and highly taxed.

# Indicative Planning
- Originated in France after WWII by Charles de Gaulle.
- Meant to
	- Strengthen the French economy 
	- Counter balances demands of Socialists/Communist calls for Stalinist's style of command planning
[[Alec Nove]]

## Different Types of Economic Incentives
### Material Rewards
Monetary rewards (eg., market economies rely heavily on this)
### Moral Suasion
Influence behavior through ethical persuasions (ie "the right thing to do" --effective in the short term: soldier on the battlefield)
### Coercion
Threat of force to obtain compliance (ie between 1934 - 1953, 18.75 million people spent time in forced labor concentration camps in the former USSR.)

# Measuring a Society's Economic System

## 1. Economic Freedom
"personal choice"; "voluntary exchange"; S&D " freedom to enter/exit markets;" "protection of persons/property from aggression by others".

## 2. Property Rights
"Legal & political environment", "physical" & "intellectual property rights".

## 3. Legal & Regulatory Environment
Paying taxes; enforcing contracts and obtaining construction permits. 

# Mixed Systems

## Resource Ownership
### - Partly Private and partly public.

## Productivity & Income
### - Most wealth is generated by business.

## Role of Government
### - Government still plays a major part in allocation.


