#engl1102 

This episode has some first person account of what it was like to be a child in 1979 with Atlanta's "boogeyman" on the loose. 

The guy writing all of this [[Payne Lindsey]], then tries to establish his credibility by using some of his former work as an example of how he does things right. Interesting to note how he started with the first hand accounts to hook people so they wouldn't immediately click off once he started talking about himself. 

He also uses music and news clips to break up the flow and keep it interesting. It also serves to set the mood for the era they start to talk about and then they go and give more context and setting people up as credible sources that further reinforces [[Payne Lindsey]] credibility.

[[Payne Lindsey]] brought in another first person account, this time from a veteran. They spend a minute talking about the racial divide in perspective in both Vietnam and during the time that the boogeyman was active. Turns out the veteran's little brother was actually murdered by the boogeyman. The entire time this is being revealed, a synthy music track is playing in the background. After the track ends he starts to explain the burial process and how people were in fact, still racist; this included the detail that the person driving the hearse started doing donuts in the church parking lot as to rebel against burying a POC boy in it. 

ad time

The fact that they had to demand the local government to use their tax dollars to do their job is kinda crazy. But its also the 500th time I've heard it. The people in the 70's and especially in the south, were still fucking racists. 

The editing in this part is kinda bad, very choppy and just not very clean.

The police as a reaction to this, put a curfew on the town lmao. Because why solve the case when you can push the likelihood of someone getting got back a few days and make it seem like the community did something wrong.

They continue to talk about the racial divide. All of it kinda reminds me of the BLM movement, the theme of wounds re-opening and protesting an injustice/ineptitude of the police. Something something if you don't know history its bound to repeat itself yap yap yap. 

"Yall youngions don't know the struggle of walking to school with a serial killer on the loose" for the next 10 minutes. 

ad time

Now we get an account from a worker from the APD who worked the homicide unit. He was one of the first to leak the detail that it may be a serial killer. 

Another long audio track

Details on who was missing/murdered is monologued over the track as well, like by May of 1980, 30 children had gone missing. He then says some of the kids' name's that was killed for over a minute. 

Then the FBI got involved, and [[Payne Lindsey]] started calling some of the people who worked the case. More music tracks. The ex-FBI agent then spills a lot of details about how the case was worked. Namely how the first major break in the case was had, a boy hopped in a car with someone who tried to push him down onto the floorboard, the boy got out but only got some of the license plate and a full composite sketch.

They tease the next episode and end it.